hi everybody
welcome to the moms ooh I'm excited
because I never do cooking videos I love
cooking videos I'm excited because
Colette's cooking in my house I don't
really get used to this like you can
come over at any time we really should
dinner well actually because whenever we
come over Casey's cooking something
really awesome
like elk but today we are having a
vegetarian dish so I've made these sweet
potato black bean burritos before on the
Shaytards blog but I've never actually
shown the recipe so this is where you
get to see how they are made and you can
choose to make them yourself these are
actually vegan but you can we sometimes
put cheese in them and make them non
vegan that's a vegetarian still
vegetarian but you can also put meat in
them if you want to because they would
be good with me as well so they're so
good and like hearty that you don't miss
the meat in them because of the beans
and then the sweet potatoes and there's
just so much goodness in there I think
the hard thing sometimes was going
vegetarian is just the texture of me not
getting that texture but there's this
burrito is definitely substantial and my
family loves it so let's start okay so
what are we going to need for this
recipe okay we're gonna start with sweet
potatoes and you can either do like
three large ones or four to five small
ones and I just had one that was on pill
just in case you don't know just you
could it looks like cuz sometimes you
don't you know I'm always confused too
so you do you always use like the yams
the orange ones or do you ever use like
the white sweet potatoes I usually use
the orange ones but I think you can use
whatever comes you want really it
doesn't matter but these are the ones
that I always use in this recipe because
they look prettier they do look really
pretty
yeah you're going to need black beans
you can either soak them yourself or get
canned ones cuz that's what I do and I
like doing that because it's fast and I
always drain them I used about three
cans of black beans and that will be
enough to make a big pot for our whole
family like a big tray for a whole
family but if you have guests over you
might want more than that so three cans
of black beans one large onion
for about four cloves of garlic more and
more salt and pepper to taste
brown sugar if you want to add sugar you
don't have to put the brown sugar and of
course I just like the taste of it did
soy sauce one tablespoon and a
tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce if
you don't have one or the other you can
always substitute two tablespoons of
whichever one you have a tablespoon of
olive oil 3 tablespoons of chili powder
2 tablespoons of cumin this is a little
bit less because I didn't have any more
cumin in myself and I was like thinking
I forgot to ask you but that's ok you
know and then a tablespoon of mustard in
a tablespoon of ketchup I love adding
sweet to recipes like this because there
are so many spicy things and savory
things that it's good to like bring out
more of the sweet potato so that's why
brown sugar is always great tattoo
recipes like this I think and that's why
I added it into this recipe cuz I am a
sweet person some people are more like
salty spicy but I love I love it all
give it all to me this has everything
that you would ever want yes and I did
leave out the hot sauce but you can add
any kind of hot sauce that you like to
this but when I make it for my kids I
usually leave that part out ok so what
are we going to do first we're going to
cut up our potatoes and start them
boiling and then we'll put all the stuff
in the beans and start that so it's kind
of a potato so how long does it usually
take to a boil the sweet potatoes the
potatoes only take about 10 minutes to
soften and then mash them and then I put
them to the side but the beans will take
about 20 minutes so you know any time in
between there if you want to start the
beans first and then do the potatoes I
always like to start him first for some
reason okay so I am really happy that I
have a partner in crime today because
normally I do all this by myself or I
have one of the kids help but I don't
normally let them cut because it scares
me my dog is really scary right alright
so she's gonna cut up the potatoes and
get those started while I show you guys
how to mix all the beans normally I do
this on the stovetop but
we're yeah we just want to show you
right here because it's easier so I'll
start with the olive oil and I'll put
that in the pan first and that does not
take very long to heat up and you don't
want to let all Avoyelles sit on the
stovetop getting hot because it gets too
hot and it burns and it pops at you and
it's messy so don't let that get too hot
before you put your onions on so you're
gonna put your onions on normally you
let them saute it for a little bit maybe
about two minutes and and just so you
know it's okay to add everything at once
and then start it like it doesn't matter
how you do it this is just the order
that I usually do it in so you can just
however works for you you do it that way
then you're gonna put the beans in and
at this point the pan is gonna be a
little bit dry so then you're gonna put
half of the water in I guess I didn't
show that part of the game you're gonna
have a cup and a half of water okay so
you're going to put maybe half the water
in and you're gonna let that cook
together for a little bit and while the
beans are cooking you want to make sure
that you're mashing while you're cooking
them and then you can just add all your
stuff so the sugar and like all of this
stuff it doesn't matter at all when you
put it in how much you put in if you
like try it you decide you know what
babe I'll put more soy sauce or less
chili powder or whatever like you can
decide I'm all about that with recipes
like I always get recipes online and
then I just changed them up so much like
I'm like you know what that's not
working for me so feel free to do it
however you want and I sometimes put the
garlic in with the onions but sometimes
they take me so long to chop up that I
end up just putting them in at the end
okay and then salt and pepper to taste
just however much you want okay then
you're going to mix that up mash it up
let it simmer for about 10 minutes mash
it up some more let it simmer watch them
make sure they don't get too dry add
water in mash them until they're kind of
a nice smooth like refried green text
and I don't match them up until they're
totally smooth there's always going to
be some chunks of beans in there and
that's totally fine so we're gonna let
that cook for a minute and then boil
these boil and we'll be right back and
we'll probably eat some chocolate in
between cuz that's fun all right so
we've cooked the potatoes and we've
mashed them I didn't add anything to the
potatoes we just cut him up put him in
the pot let him boil for about 10-15
minutes and then mashed him up right in
the water first strain
don't leave thank you I forget the
little thing you know it's little things
that like I don't cook so if someone
doesn't say that then I would be like me
with the water so you got your potatoes
and then the beans I ended up having to
add a little bit more water while it was
cooking them so just keep that in mind
depending on this is really weird I
didn't know about cooking but depending
on your elevation oh you need to add
more water cuz it's we're in a dry
climate and we're up higher up the so it
sucks the water out quicker so I had to
add more water but I noticed in
California I when I put a cup and a half
it was too much so depending on where
you live just kind of watch the water
alright so we have the beans are all
mashed up and cooked potatoes and we're
just going to put them together I
usually put the sweet potato on the
bottom and just depending on how much
you want to put on there I just put like
a little dollop I'm gonna double up on
top of those depends on how big your
tortillas are how big you want the
burritos so big but kind of just an even
amount of both okay there we go
that is beautiful okay and then I always
fold the ends in first and then wrap one
side and tuck it and then roll it that
way when you're eating you don't have
stuff falling out the ends so and then
we're just putting them in a baking dish
if you don't want to keep them
vegetarian or vegan you can put cheese
on them at this point and I usually put
cheese on the inside and then I put
cheese on the outside as well because
Jesus fun and this is the this is where
you would add me to it
yes add any kind of meat you'll want to
already cooked though for sure like so
cook your meat and then add it into the
burrito now you put them in the oven for
about 12 to 15 minutes just to make the
tortillas a little bit crispy alright
they're all finished and we just left
them in for about 1215 minutes so
they're all crispy and awesome now so
good they do smell good right so you
want to make sure they're cool before
you get them out of the pan and if I'm
serving them to my kids I'll always kind
of in half like that because I have some
cool off faster but yeah and then you
can put sour cream or off kados or
guacamole or like anything salts like
you can add anything to it yep
so you're ready to try it yes okay so
ready so good mm-hmm
so good yeah I think it's good let's add
some cheese to it next time yeah but
they're really good without cheese -
mm-hmm so such a yummy healthy dish okay
let us know if you try it let us know if
you want to see more recipes on the moms
view I like cooking together I think it
was a really fun yeah don't try it let
us know what you think and send pictures
to me on Twitter if you do okay I'm
excited all right we love you guys we'll
see you next time bye